= exchange

The Exchange Gem gives you easy access to currency functions directly on your Numbers. It has been tested against ruby 1.8.7, ruby 1.9.2 and 1.9.3. 

=== Easy Conversion

Imagine a conversion as easy as 
  1.eur.to_usd
or even better 
  1.eur.to_usd(:at => Time.now - 84600)
which gets you an exchange at the rates of yesterday.

=== Only one request per day to keep you up to date

Imagine the exchange rates getting cached, and you hitting the internet only daily to get new rates (hourly if you're eager to have the absolutely newest ones)

=== Use two great APIs or your own

Two open APIs are already included: Currency Bot (http://currencybot.github.com/) and Xaviermedia (http://www.xavierforum.com/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=10979&sid=671a685edbfa5dbec219fbc6793d5057)
but if you have another API you like to use, it becomes as easy as writing one Class and two methods to use it with the Exchange gem. Just visit the documentation here: http://rubydoc.info/github/beatrichartz/exchange/Exchange/ExternalAPI to see an example of a custom API Extension

=== Use great caches or your own

Also, the gem allows you to use one of three available caching solutions: Memcached via the Memcached gem, Redis via the redis gem or the Rails cache.
But, same here, if you don't like any of these or want to use your own caching solution, it is as easy as writing one Class and two methods to use it with Exchange. Just visit the documentation here: http://rubydoc.info/github/beatrichartz/exchange/Exchange/Cache for an example of a cache extension

== Installation
=== Bundler / Rails
Add it to your Gemfile  
  gem "exchange", ">=0.2.5"
=== Manually
Just install it as a gem :)
  gem install exchange

== Basic Operations

=== Convert

Converting one currency to another is as easy as 1,2,3. Don't be afraid, even if it returns a currency object, all Fixed and Float operations can be applied as method missing routes to the value

  1.usd.to_eur                                  #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=0.93 @currency=:eur>
  2.3.dkk.to_sek                                #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=3.33 @currency=:sek>
  45.54.nok.to_sek                              #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=3.33 @currency=:sek>

Easily convert one currency to another at a historical rate

  1.52.usd.to_eur :at => '2011-01-01'           #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=1.23 @currency=:eur>
  3.45.eur.to_sek :at => Time.gm(2011,3,3)      #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=19.23 @currency=:sek>
  345.sek.to_nok :at => Time.gm(2011,3,3)       #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=348 @currency=:nok>
  
Or even define an instance of currency as historic by adding a time.

  1.52.usd(:at => '2011-01-01').to_eur          #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=1.23 @currency=:eur>
  3.45.eur(:at => Time.gm(2011,3,3)).to_sek     #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=19.23 @currency=:sek>
  345.sek(:at => Time.gm(2011,3,3)).to_nok      #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=348 @currency=:nok>
  
Do multiple conversion steps at once (if in any way useful)

  3.chf.to_eur(:at => '2011-02-04').to_usd      #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=5.3 @currency=:eur>
  
  
=== Compare

Compare Currencies, they will convert implicitly

  2.eur > 2.usd                                 #=> true (2.usd get converted to eur and compared)
  2.nok < 2.sek                                 #=> false (2.sek get converted to nok and compared)
  5.eur == 4.34.chf                             #=> true
  50.eur == 4.34.chf                            #=> false
  50.eur.to_sek == 50.eur                       #=> true
  50.eur(:at => '2011-1-1') == 50.sek           #=> false

Sort multiple currencies at once

  [5.eur, 4.usd, 4.chf(:at => '2010-01-01')].sort   #=> [#<Exchange::Currency @value=4 @currency=:usd>, #<Exchange::Currency @value=4 @currency=:chf>, #<Exchange::Currency @value=5 @currency=:eur>]
  
This is true, because it uses the same historic conversion rate

  3.eur(:at => '201-01-01').to_usd == 3.eur.to_usd(:at => '201-01-01')
  
But this is false, obviously, because the second instance uses the present exchange rate

  3.eur(:at => '201-01-01').to_usd == 3.eur.to_usd
  
=== Operate

Add, Subtract, Multiply, Divide Currencies and don't lose a dime. The result will get returned in the currency of the first argument

  1.usd + 1.32.eur                              #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=2.54 @currency=:usd>
  1.usd - 1.32.eur                              #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=-0.2 @currency=:usd>
  1.usd * 1.32.eur                              #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=3.44 @currency=:usd>
  1.usd / 1.32.eur                              #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=0.89 @currency=:usd>
  
  
If you define a currency object as historic. It will use historic conversion if it gets converted (in this example, the 1.32 eur will get converted to usd at the rate of January 1 2008)

  1.usd - 1.32.eur(:at => '2008-1-1')           #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=2.54 @currency=:usd>

You can just instantiate currencies and apply operations

  3.1.eur.round                                   #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=3 @currency=:eur>

Convert one currency to another and round, ceil or floor it, it still retains currency information of the actual and previous currency

  1.34.usd.to_eur.round                         #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=1 @currency=:eur>
  10.34.usd.to_nok.ceil                         #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=45 @currency=:nok>
  5.34.usd.to_eur.floor                         #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=4 @currency=:eur>
  5.34.usd.to_eur.floor.from                    #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=5.34 @currency=:usd>
  
  
=== Retain Information

Access the original currency and its value after conversion, even over multiple steps
  converted = 2.eur.to_usd                      #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=2.12 @currency=:usd>
  converted.from                                #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=2 @currency=:eur>
  converted2 = converted.to_nok                 #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=22.12 @currency=:nok>
  converted2.from                               #=> #<Exchange::Currency @value=2.12 @currency=:usd>

== Configuration

You can configure the exchange gem to a variety of options, allowing you to control restrictions on operations, caching and which API the gem uses. Just set the configuration with

  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    # your configuration goes here
  end
  

=== Options

The options available are
  
  :cache (default :memcached)               The cache type to use. Possible Values: :redis, :memcached or :rails or false to disable caching
  :cache_host (default '127.0.0.1')         A string with the hostname or IP to set the cache host to. Does not have to be set for Rails cache
  :cache_port (default 11211)               An integer for the cache port. Does not have to be set for Rails cache
  :api (default :currency_bot)              The API to use. Possible Values: :currency_bot (Open Source currency bot API) or :xavier_media (Xavier Media API)
  :retries (default 5)                      The number of times the gem should retry to connect to the api host
  :allow_mixed_opterations (default true)   If set to false, Operations with with different currencies raise errors.
  :update (default :daily)                  The regularity of updates for the API. Possible values: :daily, :hourly.

If your afraid of mixed currency operations, just don't allow them
  Exchange::Configuration.allow_mixed_operations = false
  1.usd + 1.eur                                 #=> MixedCurrencyError

=== Caching Options  

Use Memcached to cache the result (default). Exchange will cache the API files with a key starting with 'exchange_'
  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    c.cache = :memcached
    c.cache_host = 'yourhost'
    c.cache_port = 2423 #your port
  end

Use Redis to cache the result. Exchange will cache the API files with a key starting with 'exchange_'
  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    c.cache = :redis
    c.cache_host = 'yourhost'
    c.cache_port = 2423 #your port
  end

Use Rails to cache the result. Exchange will cache the API files with a key starting with 'exchange_'
  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    c.cache = :rails
  end
  
=== API Options

Use the currencybot Open Source API as a source of your conversion rates (default)
  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    c.api = :currency_bot
  end

Use the Xaviermedia API as the source of your conversion rates
  Exchange::Configuration.define do |c|
    c.api = :xavier_media
  end
  
== Connect your own API and Cache

Easily connect to your custom API by writing an ExternalAPI Class, or use your own caching solution to cache. Please note that only open source APIs can be accepted as contributions to this gem. Private / Premium APIs have to be written as your own.
  module Exchange
    module ExternalAPI
      class MyCustom < Base
        # Define here which currencies your API can handle
        CURRENCIES = %W(usd chf)
        
        # Every instance of ExternalAPI Class has to have an update function which gets the rates from the API
        def update(opts={})
          # assure that you will get a Time object for the historical dates
          time = assure_time(opts[:at]) 

          # call your API (shown here with a helper function that builds your API URL). Like this, your calls will get cached.
          Call.new(api_url(time), :at => time) do |result|

            # assign the currency conversion base, attention, this is readonly, so don't do self.base = 
            @base                 = result['base']

            # assign the rates, this has to be a hash with the following format: {'USD' => 1.23242, 'CHF' => 1.34323}. Attention, this is readonly.
            @rates                = result['rates']

            # timestamp the api call result. This may come in handy to assure you have the right result. Attention, this is readonly.
            @timestamp            = result['timestamp'].to_i
          end
        end
        
        private

          def api_url(time)
            # code a helper function that builds your api url for the specified time
          end

      end
    end
  end

Now, you can configure your API in the configuration. The Symbol will get camelcased and constantized

  Exchange::Configuration.api = :my_custom

Have fun, and don't forget to write tests.

Write your own caching module to use the gem with your own custom caching solution.
  module Cache
    class MyCustomCache < Base
      class << self
        # a cache class has to have the class method "cached"
        def cached api, opts={}, &block
          # generate the key with key(api, opts[:at]) and you will get a unique key to store in your cache
          # Your code goes here
        end
      end
    end
  end

Now, you can configure your Caching solution in the configuration. The Symbol will get camelcased and constantized

  Exchange::Configuration.cache = :my_custom_cache

Have fun, and don't forget to write tests.


== Contributing to exchange

Please note that only open source APIs can be accepted as contributions to this gem. Private / Premium APIs have to be written as your own extension and will not be added to the gem code.
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Make sure to add documentation for it. This is important so everyone else can see what your code can do.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Beat Richartz. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

